---
title: "Housing cost burden, homeownership, and self-rated health among migrant workers in Chinese cities: the confounding effect of residence duration"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-11-19
excerpt: '[Download paper here](https://yiw0104.github.io/files/HMH_Main.pdf)'
date: 2022-11-19
venue: 'Cities (Forthcoming)'
paperurl: 
citation: 
---
Housing is a critical social determinant of health. Research on the impact of housing on health among migrants is more complex than that of the general population because of migrants’ health decline over time: while migrants exhibit a health advantage upon arrival, they gradually lose it as they stay longer in the host city. Existing studies on migrants’ housing and health have paid little attention to the confounding effect of residence duration and are thus prone to misleading results. Using data from the 2017 China Migrants Dynamic Survey (CMDS), this study fills in the gap by examining how the incorporation of residence duration alters the relationship of housing cost burden and homeownership with migrant self-rated health (SRH). The study shows that migrant workers with higher housing cost burden and longer residence duration tend to have worse SRH. Incorporating residence duration attenuates the crude association between homeownership and worse SRH. The results imply that the health decline among migrants can be attributed to the discriminatory hukou system—a system that limits migrants’ access to social welfare and puts them in a socioeconomically disadvantaged position. The study thus emphasizes the removal of structural and socio-economic barriers faced by the migrant population.

[Download paper here](https://yiw0104.github.io/files/HMH_Main.pdf)

[Download appendix here](https://yiw0104.github.io/files/HMH_Appendix.pdf)